 


# clitoris

A simple utility that transforms (console-friendly) strings or (JavaScript) arrays of strings into complex JavaScript data: objects, arrays, numbers, strings, booleans (, null or undefined), nested or not.

## 1. Installation

~$ `npm install --save clitoris`

## 2. Usage

This is a full example, and it could be written in 1 line, as the command-line interface usually requires:

```js
var data = require("clitoris").Clitoris.parse(`
{
 @key1 [ :string:value1 ":s:value 2 with spaces" ]
 @key2 [ :boolean:true :b:false ]
 @key3 [ :number:100 :n:-100.99 ]
 @key4 :null:
 @key5 [ :undefined: :u: ]
 @key6 [ [ [ :n:1 ] ] ]
 @key7 { @key7.1 { @key7.1.1 { "@key7.1.1.1 with spaces" "simple string" } }
}
`);

console.log(data);

// 
// data is now:
// 
// {
//   key1: [ "value1", "value 2 with spaces" ],
//   key2: [ true, false ],
//   key3: [ 100, -100.99 ],
//   key4: null,
//   key5: [ undefined, undefined ],
//   key6: [ [ [ 1 ] ] ],
//   key7: {
//     "key7.1": {
//       "key7.1.1": {
//         "key7.1.1.1 with spaces": "simple string"
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }
// 
```

## 3. API Reference 




 


----

### **`Clitoris`**

**Type:** `{Class}`

**Description:** The main (and unique) class of the API.

It can be accessed like this:

```js
const Clitoris = require("clitoris").Clitoris;
```




 


----

### **`Clitoris.parse(input:string|array)`**


**Type:** `{Function}`


**Parameter:** `input {String | Array}`. Data to be parsed. It can be a string, or an array of strings.


**ParameterSyntax:** The Clitoris.parse(~) parameter accepts a very specific syntax, but it will be enough to
create rich JSON data for command-line applications. 

First, the method will tokenize the string as a normal command-line interface from a console would do.

Then, the resulting array (which can be directly provided, instead of a `String`), which is simply the 
provided text but tokenized, will be parsed following the next syntax.

**Syntax:**

##### `1. Strings = :string:~ | :s:~ | default`

`Strings` can be generated with `:string:someText` or `:s:whatever`.

For spaced texts, one can wrap the token with `"`, like so: `":string:some spaced text"` or `":s:some spaced text"`.

By default, any token that does not fit other type, will be automatically converted into `String` too.

That means that, for example, the token `"This is some text"` will be converted into `String` directly.

##### `2. Numbers = :number:~ | :n:~`

`Numbers` can be generated with `:number:1` or `:n:-1.55`.

Negative and decimal numbers are also valid values.

##### `3. Booleans = :boolean:true | :b:true | :boolean:false | :b:false`

`Booleans` can only be generated by these 4 tokens: 

`:boolean:true`

`:b:true`

`:boolean:false`

`:b:false`

##### `Null`

`Null` value can only be generated by this token: `:null:`.

##### `Undefined`

`Undefined` value can only be generated by these 2 tokens:

`:undefined:`

`:u:`

##### `Arrays`

`Arrays` can be generated when a `[` and later and coherently a `]` are provided.

By "coherently", it means that if you open an array, you have to close it, and if you open 2 arrays, you have to close 2 arrays, and so on.

This implies that you can nest arrays.

The values of the array are directly specified inside of the `[` and `]`. Here, you can provide any type of value, so nested arrays are also valid, or mixing arrays and objects.

##### `Objects`

`Object` can be generated when a `{` and later and coherently a `}` are provided.

By "coherently", it means that if you open an object, you have to close it, and if you open 2 objects, you have to close 2 objects, and so on.

This implies that you can nest objects.

The values of the object follow this simple syntax:

`{ @key` `value }` 

Through `@key` we define the next property we want to set in the object. To provide spaced keys, wrap the key in `"`, like so: `"@This is a spaced key"`.

Through `value` we define the next value *of the previously specified property* we want to put in the object. Here, you can provide any type of value, so nested objects are also valid, or mixing arrays and objects.


**Returns:** `{Any}`. Returns the input, but parsed.


**Description:** Takes a string (or an array of strings, like the one found at `process.argv` by default 
in Node.js), and returns the same, but transformed into real JavaScript data.



 


----

### **`Clitoris#parse(input:string|array)`**


**Type:** `{Function}`


**Description:** This method does the same as the static `Clitoris.parse`.




 


----

### **`Clitoris.tipifyValues(input:array)`**


**Accessibility:** `**Internals**`




 


----

### **`Clitoris.changeValue(token:string, currentIndex:number, tokenList:array)`**


**Accessibility:** `**Internals**`




 


## 4. Tests and documentation

To run the tests, you can:

~$ `npm run test` 

To generate the new documentation, you can:

~$ `npm run docs`



## 5. Conclusion

If you want to have a flexible command-line-interface based application, with rich parametrization, 
and based on minimalistic approaches, this is a great tool for you. 





# Read this file
